Lab02 Reorganization (#278)
UPB-FILS-MA/upb-fils-ma.github.io: docs/lab/02/02.md

```

:::tip

While the device initialization is specific to every hardware device (the example uses the 
`embassy_rp` crate that is for RP2040), the pin initialization and usage is portable. It
uses the same code, regardless of the MCU used.

:::

### Configure GPIO Input

Using a pin as input is very similar to using it as output.

```rust
use gpio::{Input, Pull};

let pin = Input::new(peripherals.PIN_n, Pull::Up);

if pin.is_high() {
    // Do something if the pin value is HIGH (1)
} else {
    // Do something if the pin value if LOW (0)
}
```

:::warning 

For a correct use of the buttons, use pull-up, pull-down resistors depending on the mode of operation of the button. Check [01 - Hardware Introduction](https://embedded-rust-101.wyliodrin.com/docs/lab/01#buttons)

:::

### Waiting

Embassy-rs provides support for suspending the execution of the software for an amount of time. It uses
the [`Timer`](https://docs.rs/embassy-time/0.3.0/embassy_time/struct.Timer.html) structure from the
[`embassy_time`](https://docs.rs/embassy-time/latest/embassy_time/) crate.

```rust
// suspend the execution for a period of time
use embassy_time::Timer;

Timer::after_secs(1).await;
```

:::tip

> If the MCU provides timers, Embassy-rs will use them to suspend the software. This is very efficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the MCU provides timers, the Embassy framework will use them to suspend the software. This is very efficient.
```

Author: done

![IO Bank0](images/gpio_mux.png)
</div>

> ## MMIO Development

Reviewer: This is not MMIO, it is Hardware Access or similar.

Author: Done

| [`cyw43`](https://docs.embassy.dev/cyw43/git/default/index.html), [`cyw43-pio`](https://docs.embassy.dev/cyw43-pio/git/default/index.html) | Driver (WiFi) |
| [`embedded-hal`](https://docs.rs/embedded-hal/latest/embedded_hal/), [`embedded-hal-async`](https://docs.rs/embedded-hal-async/latest/embedded_hal_async/)| **Rust Embedded HAL (Standard)** |
| [`embassy_rp`](https://docs.embassy.dev/embassy-rp/git/rp2040/index.html) | HAL Implementation |
| [`cortex-m`](https://docs.rs/cortex-m/latest/cortex_m/), [`cortex-m-rt`](https://docs.rs/cortex-m-rt/latest/cortex_m_rt/) | μ-architecture crates |
| [`rp_pac`](https://docs.embassy.dev/rp-pac/git/default/index.html) | Platform Access Crate |

:::info

The name *Embassy-rs* is derived form **Emb**edded **Asy**nchronous Rust.

:::

### Entry

Embassy-rs is a framework built on top of `cortex-m-rt` and provides its own method of defining
the entrypoint and bootloader.

```rust
use embassy_executor::Spawner;

#[embassy_executor::main]
async fn main(_spawner: Spawner) {
    let peripherals = embassy_rp::init(Default::default());
}
```

> Instead of using the `entry` macro, embassy-rs provides the `embassy_executor::main` macro that

Reviewer: This should be moved to the bare metal part and modified to explain that `embassy_executor:main` uses it.

Author: Done

sets the `main` function as the startup point and defines the correct bootloader.

The `embassy_rp::init` function takes care of the peripheral initialization so that developers can jump
right in and use them.

:::note

Embassy-rs is designed to work in an asynchronous way and this is why the `main` function is defined as `async`. For the time being, just take it as a must and ignore it.

:::

:::info

> The `main` function does not have to loop indefinitely, it is allowed to return, as it runs within the embassy-rs framework.

Reviewer: This should be moved to the bare metal and explain that it has to loop.

Author: Done

:::

### Configure GPIO Output

> In bare metal and PAC modes, developers have to manually initialize the *IO Bank0* and *SIO* peripherals.

Reviewer: This should be moved to bare metal.

Author: Moved it

```

:::tip

While the device initialization is specific to every hardware device (the example uses the 
`embassy_rp` crate that is for RP2040), the pin initialization and usage is portable. It
uses the same code, regardless of the MCU used.

:::

### Configure GPIO Input

Using a pin as input is very similar to using it as output.

```rust
use gpio::{Input, Pull};

let pin = Input::new(peripherals.PIN_n, Pull::Up);

if pin.is_high() {
    // Do something if the pin value is HIGH (1)
} else {
    // Do something if the pin value if LOW (0)
}
```

:::warning 

For a correct use of the buttons, use pull-up, pull-down resistors depending on the mode of operation of the button. Check [01 - Hardware Introduction](https://embedded-rust-101.wyliodrin.com/docs/lab/01#buttons)

:::

### Waiting

Embassy-rs provides support for suspending the execution of the software for an amount of time. It uses
the [`Timer`](https://docs.rs/embassy-time/0.3.0/embassy_time/struct.Timer.html) structure from the
[`embassy_time`](https://docs.rs/embassy-time/latest/embassy_time/) crate.

```rust
// suspend the execution for a period of time
use embassy_time::Timer;

Timer::after_secs(1).await;
```

:::tip

> If the MCU provides timers, Embassy-rs will use them to suspend the software. This is much more efficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the MCU provides timers, Embassy-rs will use them to suspend the software. This is very efficient.
```

Reviewer: At bate metal explain that looping with `nop` is not efficient.

Author: Done

initialization code and provides a macro called `entry` that developers can use to select the startup (main)
function.

:::info

Embassy-rs provides the `embassy_executor::main` macro that

> sets the `main` function as the startup point, by also using the `entry` macro, and defines the correct bootloader.

Reviewer: I would say something like `The entry macro is used by embassy ...`.

Author: done

:::

2. Write a Rust program that set on HIGH the LED connected to GPIO pin 0 (GP0). (**2p**)

>    1. use the `embassy-rs` framework

Reviewer: I would put all the exercises with embassy at the beginning, and the PAC and bare metal after.

Author: done
